---
title: "The pieces"
date: 2024-02-05
draft: true
---
*A collection of stories in my life that I do not want to forget.*

**Tuesday, Febuary 5, 2024.**
I just heard from my closest friend that he got an offer from his dream company and would go to Ho Chi Minh City next month. I felt happy for a lot, really, because he is the smartest guy I know and he deserves the best compensations for his abilities. But, although I am not now living in Hanoi with him (our houses are so close, we grew up together in the same neighborhood), I felt that a concrete piece of my childhood, my familiarity, my closest things, is bound to leave me. Whenever I go back to Hanoi and my house, I always know that he is always there and I can buy our usual snacks and drinks to his house and then do whatever thing that he is doing (mostly hack nerdy stuff haha). But, part of the journey is the end, isn't it? Things that used to be so familiar to you, like your mom waking you up for school, you spending all the summer in a vacant lot and playing football, or your childhood friend who you assume to forever stay there and be something that would never change for your own sake. Well, I am too selfish! Being an adult is a hard job that I never expected it to be. Changes are good, but some changes are heavy-hearted and probably need some time to go through. 

**Someday in August 2023.** 
I tried to stay as late as I could on my last day at Save the Children's office. I looked at my colleagues' empty desks (they had left for home then) and found myself wondering "Will I ever meet these lovely people again?". Over the course of my tenure, I got to know them beyond the scope of professionalism. I got to learn one's dream that is to build a large garden at their house's rooftop, another's effort to become better at data analysis using Python by taking extra evening classes, or another's wish that the donors keep funding so they can still keep the job and earn a living for their family. The reality of working for NGO is harsh because it can be very temporary, people come and go, or there are people who want to change something for good, but get bumped with some dominant constraints. My colleagues came from different backgrounds, realistically trying to earn money, but at the same time (or maybe coincidentally), got to know one another and still had some occasions sharing their dreams with one another. I will probably not see them any soon in person and online communication is not my jam. But, for sure, I hold them dearly in my heart, and one of my dreams is to meet them again at some point.