---
title: "Core memos"
date: 2024-02-05
draft: true
---

**Sunday, May 12, 2024.**
I called my parents on a weekend as usual. This time, I meant to celebrate a brief moment with my mom because it was some big event for her recently. My dad was nearby watching a TV show and my mom and I were very curious about but he did not say anything. After the call, my mom went to the bathroom and my dad used her phone to call me again. He said he was watching a Chinese drama and told me not to make fun of him because the drama was about rural events and romance. Apparently, he felt insecure about it, but I thought it was such a nice thing that he spent times doing things that he really enjoys. He thought he wanted to share it with me since I also enjoy watching movies and kept on introducing me to the characters and stories. As I searched the movie online, it was actually a very famous one and recognized by the UNESCO and the New York Times for its effort in preserving the traditions and cultural heritages of the city where it was filmed. I told my dad about it and he was super proud and happy about the movie - I genuinely felt so happy for him. Dad and I share a few common interests. As we grow older, I tend to have a more "quantitative-based" career while he has always been working closely in the fields of communications and cultures. We talk less frequently over time and spend more time doing our own stuff. We fight less usually than when I was still in middle or high school, though. Mom is often the one I proactively seek and talk to first. I think there are many factors contributing to our distance and I do not want this to keep on. The Chinese drama show was something that reminded me of the moments I used to share with him. On a quiet Sunday afternoon far from him like now, I suddenly remember the time he taught me how to ride a bike, the time we slept together on the floor in my second and third grade, or the time we went to the cinema and watched a soggy, romantic movie, or when he bought me toys and comic books when he was back from a business trip (tears are pouring). Although we still have conflicts in many views, I really want to go home and talk to him about it or the movies or anything, honestly. Being far from him and being aware of the moments, I hope to be back soon.

**Tuesday, Febuary 5, 2024.**
I just heard from my closest friend that he got an offer from his dream company and would go to Ho Chi Minh City next month. I felt happy for a lot, really, because he is the smartest guy I know and he deserves the best compensations for his abilities. But, although I am not now living in Hanoi with him (our houses are so close, we grew up together in the same neighborhood), I felt that a concrete piece of my childhood, my familiarity, my closest things, is bound to leave me. Whenever I go back to Hanoi and my house, I always know that he is always there and I can buy our usual snacks and drinks to his house and then do whatever thing that he is doing (mostly hack nerdy stuff haha). But, part of the journey is the end, isn't it? Things that used to be so familiar to you, like your mom waking you up for school, you spending all the summer in a vacant lot and playing football, or your childhood friend who you assume to forever stay there and be something that would never change for your own sake. Well, I am too selfish! Being an adult is a hard job that I never expected it to be. Changes are good, but some changes are heavy-hearted and probably need some time to go through. 

**Someday in August 2023.** 
I tried to stay as late as I could on my last day at Save the Children's office. I looked at my colleagues' empty desks (they had left for home then) and found myself wondering "Will I ever meet these lovely people again?". Over the course of my tenure, I got to know them beyond the scope of professionalism. I got to learn one's dream that is to build a large garden at their house's rooftop, another's effort to become better at data analysis using Python by taking extra evening classes, or another's wish that the donors keep funding so they can still keep the job and earn a living for their family. The reality of working for NGO is harsh because it can be very temporary, people come and go, or there are people who want to change something for good, but get bumped with some dominant constraints. My colleagues came from different backgrounds, realistically trying to earn money, but at the same time (or maybe coincidentally), got to know one another and still had some occasions sharing their dreams with one another. I will probably not see them any soon in person and online communication is not my jam. But, for sure, I hold them dearly in my heart, and one of my dreams is to meet them again at some point.